---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E3: Preparing for WODs Essay"
date: 2022-11-16
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
**Summary**
In this essay, I’m going to talk about 5 WOD activities that I’ve done throughout this semester, Browser History6, Smart Phone Product1, Invoice1, Invoice2, and Smart Phone Products 2. WODs stands for work out of the day and it’s for us to practice coding within the set time period. The time period varies depending on the difficulty of WODs. I attached the link for each WOD exercise and instructions. I've attached links for each WOD instructions

-[**BroweserHistory6**](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/040.dynamic-web-pages/experience-browserhistory6.html)

-[**SmartPhoneProducts1**](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/050.variables_data_types/experience-SmartPhoneProducts1_variables.html)

-[**Invoice1**](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html)

-[**Invoice2**](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/070.flow-control-I/experience-invoice2.html)

-[**SmartPhoneProducts2**](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/080.flow-control-II/experience-SmartPhoneProducts2.html)

**BrowserHsitory6**
For this WOD, I made sure to read the instructions thoroughly before I started coding. The instructions had an example image of what I’ve supposed to create. Also, this WOD was based on Browser History 3 and there was not much coding to do for the assignment but rather, separating each paragraph into different HTML accordingly. I didn’t find this WOD hard at all since it was mainly CSS and adding mouseover features to each HTML. I believe I watched screencasts a few times for reference and to get assistance, however, I found these WODs relatively easy and smooth.   

**SmartPhoneProducts1 With Variables**
Smart Phone Products 1 with variables is the first assignment I worked on with smartphone products. This helped me build my understanding of how to assign variables and display them on HTML files. It was a good practice of learning how Javascript “document.write ()“ by loading js files to HTML files. This Assignment took me approximately 15 minutes to complete on my second try. Also, find (Ctl + F) features on VScode saved me a lot of time since smartphone products were similar to what we did in class and I was able to utilize the materials we covered in class. Overall, I found this one of the very important WODs since it taught me very basics of the script. 

**Invoice 1**
For Invoice1, I was asked to create a simple sales receipt that could be changed using variables and expressions. For preparing this WOD, I took a time to make sure that I understand the instruction clearly. WOD instructions can be not written in clear language, however, the images of what I’m supposed to be making helped me understand the purpose of WOD. I watched a screencast a couple of times after trying it myself for the first time. I remember getting stuck at the calculations for tax, and screencast was a huge help for me to understand how javascript calculation works. I implemented calculations to the HTML by using the script tag. I was struggling to display the table on the web browser because I had a small spelling error under the script tag. Invoice 1 was great practice for me to make a comment first rather than commenting after completing it. Adding comments was advantageous for any coding since it will clear my mind while programming. 

**Invoice 2**
For Invoice 2, I was asked to update invoice 1 and add shipping calculation to invoice1. It was relatively easy compared to Invoice 1. For preparing for this WOD, I reviewed Lab for if and else statements and applied them to the calculation of the shipping policy. Like Invoice1, I struggled with missing brackets {} and (), and commas. I think it is important to check every detail of what you are typing especially since VScode doesn’t assist in adding brackets for every tag and input. Other than missing brackets, I didn’t face any problems with this WOD and I was able to finish it in ten minutes on the second try.   

**SmartPhoneProducts 2**
For Smart Phone Products 2, I was asked to update smart phone product 1 and display the same images by using for loop instead of hard coding each section. For preparing this WOD, I once again review the lab where we covered for-loop. I was confused about each section will be displayed by using document.write, and I decided to watch screencast for some assistance. By using for loop, HTML code was much easier to understand and I was able to display the same Smart Phone Products page with writing fewer hard codes. It was my first using eval() function and watching the screencast and reviewing Lab helped me understand how it works. 

**Preparation Improvements for Future WODS**
Tools that helped me code productively are auto-save and live server. After downloading these features to VS code, it was life changing! One of issue I had with WOD is forget to save and when I reload it, it wasn’t displaying the changes I made. 
In addition, I found that reading through instructions including examples tables, and hints helped tremendously. I don’t think instructions were written clearly enough and it sometimes gets really confusing so it is also important to ask for help as soon as you get confused. Professors are most likely to assist you. 
Lastly, I recommend doing all WOD exercises. Not only all WODs are connected to one another but also helps you review class materials and prepare you for challenging assignment in the future. For Assignments, you will be given less clear instructions and it gets more confusing. WOD prepares you to do challenging assignments that are coming up in the future. Overall, many DFNs and practices led me to learn how to organize codes for more readability and the habit of commenting. 


