---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4 Progress in Programming Report"
date: 2023-4-11
published: true
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
**My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:**

One of the ways that I have greatly improved is by creating the visual of the website that I want to create using HTML and CSS. Making an online store led me to choose color scheme, font, padding, and background color, literally everything!! I was able to explore and see what CSS element does. Also, my ability to comment on each code improved significantly. I learned how important it is to comment on your code so that you can understand the code in the future and also clear your thoughts during the process making. Lastly, another skill that I greatly improved is google search for what I want to do. 


**I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:**

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills. I struggled to review codes and made so many syntax errors such as missing “;”  or “}” to close the function or putting “;” where it doesn’t need. Also, I definitely need to improve my time management skills. Programming is not something that you can pull all-nighters to finish like any other class. For the next assignment, I will start the assignment as early as possible and give myself to chance to ask questions accordingly. 



**I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:**

Yes, I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without coping with the screencast. Focusing on understanding WODs instruction first, it helped me to understand what I need to make for each WODs. I’ve struggled with store 1 and invoice 3 since WODs instruction wasn’t written well. It was hard to read some sentences however, you can ask your professor what the instruction really means. 


**The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:**

Yes, the labs have helped me learn. During the class lectures, we always not ended finishing all lab questions thus we have to do more question own our selves. The lab doesn’t have any solutions to look at so I was always confused if my lab is correct or not. Especially because the lab is graded based on completion, not correctness. Labs helped me learn the modules or some javascript functions, however, they didn’t help me with assignment 1 since I didn’t find them reliable enough. 


**I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:**  

I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2. Assignment 1 was a good opportunity for me to review the materials we covered this semester and applied them to a real-world scenario. Assignment 1 was a great practice of implementing error messages when an invalid entry is submitted, and I think I can use the skills that learned from assignment 1 for the upcoming assignment. I enjoyed creating layout and format using CSS and I learned more about solving format issues, so I’m excited to use what I learned from assignment 1. 


**I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:**

Yes, the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways. First, I hope Professor Port can improve the wording of labs and assignments on the class website so the material is more readable and understandable. Second, spend more class time doing labs. I feel like the first half of the class is talking about random things related to class and we moved to labs after. I wish we can work on Labs immediately so that we can finish them during class time. 


**What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):**
What helped me the most in class are working with classmates. Since the instruction for assignments or lab on the class website is not written clearly so discussing with classmates what we need to do for the assignment helped me understand the instructions a lot better than reading. Also, I found WODs helpful as well. I improved my coding skills through WODs. I always get DNF for the first or second attempts of doing WODs and with more practice I do, I was able t learn from my mistakes.
