---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E6"
date: 2022-12-14
published: false
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

**Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)**

I built an e commerce called Sunday Bookstore that sells three genres, mystery, romance, and non fiction books. User can log in and 


**Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?**

I currently don’t have any notable shortcoming, bugs, or problems however I wasn’t able to finish the assignment 3 on time. 
Describe what you are most proud of about your system:
I’m proud of finishing the assignment 3. Before taking this class, I didn’t have any expectation for this class and didn’t know how time consuming the class was for me. This class was definitely the most challenging class that I’ve taken in college. I am proud of myself of creating e commerce book from the scratch. For assignment 3, I changed the css and html from the assignment 2 which made the websites more presentable. 


**Describe what you are least happy with your system:**  

I enjoyed creating e commerce websites as a bookstore. However, there are some issues that I waited until the last minutes to fix and I wasn’t able to fix the problem perfectly. I wasn’t able to solve the issues with displaying the images when the error message appears. 


**How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?** 
Developing assignment 3 was much different than assignment 2. Assignment 3 involves programming that we never covers in class such as mailer and shopping cart feature. Assignment 3 took more than 2 weeks to finish and I had to take a few days more to completely finish it. Also, this assignment required me to use more advanced coding and structures such as adding to cart and deleting products from the cart. Also, the structure of objects in products.json files changed and I had to implement different way to load products data to store display html page. 


**When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?**
When I ran in a problem, I review the class materials and code from the class lab. If I couldn't get the information that I was looking for, I googled the example codes and utilize the example to the assignment 3. When I had problems with structure of the websites, I emailed professor port to ask for help and he helped me understand what I was supposed to do. 
 
**Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?**
Assignment 3 example code helped me out a lot for this assignment. I was able to to use node mailer and loading product data json file to store display because of example codes. Once I understand the example code, I was able to implement them to my e commerce store. 


**Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?**

Things that didn’t go well in doing assignment 3 is that I didn’t have enough time to finish what I wanted to do. As for individual requirement, I was ask to create system where users will be automatically taken to the last products pages that they were at. I was able to write codes on time however, didn’t have enough time to test it out. I underestimated how much time it takes for me to finish the assignment 3. I wish I had more time to work on codes for assignment 3. 


**What did you learn from doing this assignment?**

I learned to use cookies and sessions to store user information and set cookies timer to automatically log users out when they are inactive on the website. Assignment 3 is the first assignment that required cookies and sessions, I was able to utilize codes from the cookies and sessions lab to assignment 3. 


**If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?**

If I could go back in time and do things differently, I would like to start planning early as possible. I took a few days from after finishing up the assignment 2, however, I wished I started earlier so that I could have time to work on extra credits and individual requirements. 


**Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging**

I spent 20% of time thinking about how to do something, 10% of time writing code and 70% of time testing and debugging codes. I faced a lot of errors and bugs in assignment 3 that I had to spend most of time testing and debugging codes. I spent 20% of time thinking and sketching what my website want to look like, which saved me a lot of coding. 


**Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)**

I didn’t work with a partner. 

 
   
